Strings also got some new interesting methods which I want to show you.
And again here I'm only presenting some of those new additions and you may look up the other ones on
the and Mozilla developer network.
So if I create a string let's name it name and it's my first name.
And of course pick yours.
You don't all have to use mine.
Of course you are free to.
And then I will log something and what I will log is my name.
And then one of the new methods starts with efforts now starts with I'll pass Max.
And what do you think I'll get if I had run I get true and you probably figured that out starts with
basically checks as the name implies.
If distrain starts with whatever I pass here.
So if I pass Max with 2 x I'd ever get false because yes it starts with Max but not with Max x.
So no extra X here.
That's what starts with us.
And of course we are not only have starts with We also have ends with.
So here if we just enter a and then my name of course does and with a N and I run.
Surprisingly I get true.
So that's ands with and starts with.
Interesting question of course this is this case sensitive.
So if I now enter a n uppercase you're thinking like a true or false I get false.
So it actually is case sensitive.
It does care if you well used to write cases.
Therefore if I enter Max all lowercase and check if it starts with that I also get falles of course
.
And we had starts with an answer with some can't check at the word begins with something where it ends
with something.
Can we also have a look if it includes something in between.
Yes we have the include Smethurst as well.
Now let's first check if this includes max which of course is the same as we checked with starts with
.
Do you think we'll get true because it includes checks everything.
Or do you think we'll get false because includes all checks everything except the first last character
.
True because checks everything.
So therefore I can also check if I have I am I.
This part here and I'm confident I do have this in this name.
So let's see if if if Java script sees it the same way.
Yes you get true.
Of course this is case sensitive too.
So if I know increases or make this an uppercase am and I run this again I get false starts with ands
with and includes And yes you could do that before Riffe regular expressions of course and probably
you would still do it this way if you knew how to write regular expressions.
But these are nice handy little methods which quickly allow you to well basically do just that check
if something is included in a word or if it starts or ends with something